# Version 0.1.4 and 0.1.3 (29/01/2023)

Dear all,

we are happy to announce the release of a new version of coq-lsp.

coq-lsp is a Language Server and Visual Studio Code extension for the
Coq Proof Assistant.

Key features of coq-lsp are continuous and incremental document
checking, advanced error recovery, markdown support, positional goals
and information panel, performance data, and more.

These last two releases bring significant improvements to the proof
development experience, including Unicode support and a much better
handling of goal information requests. See the detailed changelog below.

`coq-lsp` is available for Coq 8.16, 8.17, and master.

coq-lsp has reached the point where I feel it usable for my own proofs,
but quite a bit remains to be done. coq-ls is an open source project and
we are actively looking for contributors, see our contribution guide [1]
and list of contribution ideas [2] if you are interested.

We'd like to thank Gaëtan Gilbert who solved a longstanding problem,
thus `coq-lsp` can now work correctly with several files when using Coq
master.

Kind regards,
The coq-lsp dev team

[1] https://github.com/ejgallego/coq-lsp/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md
[2] https://github.com/ejgallego/coq-lsp/blob/main/etc/ContributionIdeas.md

Detailed changelog:

# coq-lsp 0.1.4: View
---------------------

 - Support for OCaml 4.11 (@ejgallego, #184)
 - The keybinding alt+enter in VSCode is now correctly scoped to be
   only active on Coq files (@artagnon, #188)
 - Support Unicode files (@ejgallego, #200, fixes #193, fixes #197)
 - The info view is now script enabled and does client-side
   rendering. It is also now bundled with esbuild as part of the build
   process (@artagnon, @ejgallego, #171)
 - The no-op `--std` argument to the `coq-lsp` binary has been
   removed, beware of your setup in the extension settings
   (@ejgallego, #208)
 - Settings for the VSCode extension are now categorized (@Alizter, #212)
 - `GoalAnswer`s now include the proof "stack" and better hypothesis
   information, changes are compatible with 0.1.3 `GoalAnswer` version
   (@ejgallego, #237)
 - Focus is now preserved when the info view pops up (@artagnon, #242,
   fixes #224)
 - In `_CoqProject`, `-impredicative-set` is now parsed correctly
   (@artagnon, #241)
 - InfoView is not written in React (@ejgallego, #223)
 - `debug` option in the client / protocol that will enable Coq's backtraces
   (@Alizter, @ejgallego, #217, #248)
 - Full document stats are now correctly computed on checking
   resumption, still cached sentences will display the cached timing
   tho (@ejgallego, #257)
 - Set Coq library name correctly (@ejgallego, #260)
 - `_CoqProject` file is now detected using LSP client `rootPath`
   (@ejgallego, #261)
 - You can press `\` to trigger Unicode completion by the server. This
   behavior is configurable, with "off", "regular", and "extended"
   settings (@artagnon, @Alizter, ejgallego, #219).

# coq-lsp 0.1.3: Event
----------------------

 - Much improved handling of Coq fatal errors, the server is now
   hardened against them (@ejgallego, #155, #157, #160, fixes #91)
 - `coq-lsp` now follows the LSP specification regarding
   initialization strictly (@ejgallego, #168)
 - New setting for goals to be updated when the selection changes due
   to a command; this makes VsCodeVim cursor tracking work; thanks to
   Cactus (Anton) Golov for detailed bug reporting and testing
   (@ejgallego, @jesyspa, #170, fixes #163)
 - `coq-lsp` will now warn the user when two files have been opened
   simultaneously and the parser may go into a broken state :/
   (@ejgallego, #169)
 - Implement request postponement and cancellation. Thus
   `documentSymbols` will now be postponed until the document is
   ready, (@ejgallego, #141, #146, fixes #124)
 - Protocol and VS Code interfaces now support shelved and given_up
   goals (@ejgallego, #175)
 - Allow to postpone requests to wait for data to become available on
   document points; this is implemented to provide a nicer "show goals
   while I type" experience. Client default has been changed to "show
   goals on mouse, click, typing, and cursor movement) (@ejgallego,
   #177, #179)
 - Store stats per document (@ejgallego, #180, fixes #173)
