Dear all,

the 0.1.8 release of `coq-lsp` is out.

This release brings important fixes and a few performance
improvements; in particular editing inside opaque proofs should behave
much better w.r.t. incremental engine; formatting inside the error and
message panels has been fixed, as well as display for light mode.

On the protocol side, the LSP `textDocument/selectionRange` method is
now supported, allowing clients to easily select full Coq sentences.

On the developer side, the Plugin API has seen some enhancements,
and hover plugins can now be declared.

We consider `coq-lsp` to be in beta, but fully usable status for a
large majority of setups; we encourage Coq users to try `coq-lsp` now
and report back. Documentation seems to be the main hurdle new users
are facing, please let us know about problems in this area so we can
improve.

We'd like to thank to all the contributors and bug reporters for their
work; contributions, bug reports, and feedback over `coq-lsp` are much
welcome, get in touch with us at GitHub or Zulip if you have
questions or comments.

See `coq-lsp`'s README for detailed installation instructions.

Also new in this release are the official windows installers, built on
the Coq platform. Nix support has also been generously improved by
contributors.

Note that currently released Coq versions do contain critical bugs
w.r.t. async interruptions. We strongly recommend that you install a
fixed Coq version as outlined in `coq-lsp`'s README. Windows
installers are already built with a fixed Coq version.

We take this opportunity to highlight a couple of recently released
projects built over `coq-lsp`:

- WaterProof "2.0" [1], by the WaterProof team, an educational
  mathematical environment for Coq

- CoREACT Yade [2], by Ambroise Lafont, a graphical editor for
  diagrammatic category theory proofs in Coq

`coq-lsp` is compatible with Coq 8.16-8.18 and master. We will be
phasing out Coq 8.16 support soon due to lack of manpower, contact us
if you are interested in helping maintaining it.

Detailed Changelog:
-------------------

 - Update VSCode client dependencies, should bring some performance
   improvements to goal pretty printing (@ejgallego, #530)
 - Update goal display colors for light mode so they are actually
   readable now. (@bhaktishh, #539, fixes #532)
 - Added link to Python coq-lsp client by Pedro Carrot and Nuno
   Saavedra (@Nfsaavedra, #536)
 - Properly concatenate warnings from _CoqProject (@ejgallego,
   reported by @mituharu, #541, fixes #540)
 - Fix broken `coq/saveVo` and `coq/getDocument` requests due to a
   parsing problem with extra fields in their requests (@ejgallego,
   #547, reported by @Zimmi48)
 - `fcc` now understands the `--coqlib`, `--coqcorelib`,
   `--ocamlpath`, `-Q` and `-R` arguments (@ejgallego, #555)
 - Describe findlib status in `Workspace.describe`, which is printed
   in the output windows (@ejgallego, #556)
 - `coq-lsp` plugin loader will now be strict in case of a plugin
   failure, the previous loose behavior was more convenient for the
   early releases, but it doesn't make sense now and made things
   pretty hard to debug on the Windows installer (@ejgallego, #557)
 - Add pointers to Windows installers (@ejgallego, #559)
 - Recognize `Goal` and `Definition $id : ... .` as proof starters
   (@ejgallego, #561, reported by @Zimmi48, fixes #548)
 - Provide basic notation information on hover. This is intended for
   people to build their own more refined notation feedback systems
   (@ejgallego, #562)
 - Hover request can now be extended by plugins (@ejgallego, #562)
 - Updated LSP and JS client libs, notably to vscode-languageclient 9
   (@ejgallego, #565)
 - Implement a LIFO document scheduler, this is heavier in the
   background as more documents will be checked, but provides a few
   usability improvements (@ejgallego, #566, fixes #563, reported by
   Ali Caglayan)
 - New lexical qed detection error recovery rule; this makes a very
   large usability difference in practice when editing inside proofs.
   (@ejgallego, #567, fixes #33)
 - `coq-lsp` is now supported by the `coq-nix-toolbox` (@Zimmi48,
   @CohenCyril, #572, via
   https://github.com/coq-community/coq-nix-toolbox/pull/164 )
 - Support for `-rifrom` in `_CoqProject` and in command line
   (`--rifrom`). Thanks to Lasse Blaauwbroek for the report.
   (@ejgallego, #581, fixes #579)
 - Export Query Goals API in VSCode client; this way other extensions
   can implement their own commands that query Coq goals (@amblafont,
   @ejgallego, #576, closes #558)
 - New `pretac` field for preprocessing of goals with a tactic using
   speculative execution, this is experimental for now (@amblafont,
   @ejgallego, #573, helps with #558)
 - Implement `textDocument/selectionRange` request, that will return
   the range of the Coq sentence underlying the cursor. In VSCode,
   this is triggered by the "Expand Selection" command. The
   implementation is partial: we only take into account the first
   position, and we only return a single range (Coq sentence) without
   parents. (@ejgallego, #582)
 - Be more robust to mixed-separator windows paths in workspace
   detection (@ejgallego, #583, fixes #569)
 - Adjust printing breaks in error and message panels (@ejgallego,
   @Alizter, #586, fixes #457 , fixes #458 , fixes #571)

Kind regards,
Emilio

[1] https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=waterproof-tue.waterproof
[2] https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=amblafont.coreact-yade
